---
layout: post
title: 'The future is biotech'
tags:
- Portfolio Idea
- Biotech
---

This month, I'm looking at an industry that's only recently became popular and promises potential large gains. Of course, with large gains comes a lot more risk and volatility, so please look away if you want a steady portfolio.

I would never suggest that biotech stocks should be the only thing in your portfolio. But if you already have a solid basis and feel ready for a wild ride with part of your portfolio, you should definitely come closer and read on.

## Biotech

[Biotechnology, or biotech for short](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biotechnology), has been around for ages. It's only fairly recently that the term has become synonym with companies trying out all kind of new scientific discoveries to find new medicines, diagnostics or even fancy fabrication techniques using biological processes.

The term is used freely for a very varied number of companies and most companies are on a journey of discovery, using experimental and unproven techniques. This means that many of those companies are not making a profit and may be destined to fail. 

However, if a company manages to figure it out, it usually means the profits are huge and investors may get a big payday.

## Intrinsic Value

Valuing a company that's still trying to figure out what it's going to sell is difficult. What companies are going to do well and what companies will fail? Even if you have a very scientific background, it's hard to tell the winners from the losers.

[In the perfect world](https://www.thestreet.com/story/10305619/1/how-to-value-biotech-stocks.html), you'd:

1. Make an inventory of all the research that the company is performing, 
2. Figure out how much money they will be able to make in the future,
3. Add a [discount](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/discount.asp) for uncertainty.

This figure is what you'd call [the **intrinsic value** of the company](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/intrinsicvalue.asp).

Now you can **compare the intrinsic value to the market value** and find cheap companies.

As you can imagine, it's incredibly complicated to do that calculation, even if you have the know-how.

So since it's impossible, lets just look at formulas that smart people have already proposed. Buffet, Lynch, Graham, they all have their own way of calculating the intrinsic value. We'll use one of [Uncle Stock](http://www.unclestock.com/?referrer=5693737131835392)'s nice features: it has an average of all of those.

On top of that, I'm not going to look at the actual values, but at the growth (the compound annual growth rate or CAGR)

## This Month's Portfolio

This month's criteria is looking for biotech companies that seem to be growing their intrinsic value the fastest:

- Biotech company in North America or Europe.
- Order by average intrinsic value growth rate (IV CAGR).
- Remove companies that have an infinite growth rate.

{: .table .table-bordered .table-hover}

| Symbol  | Name                            | Current price | Enterprise value | RSI  | IV CAGR |
| :------ | :------------------------------ | ------------: | ---------------: | :--: | ------- |
| ARGX    | argenx SE                       |    116.50 USD |        2.94B USD |  38  | 146%    |
| CTMX    | CytomX Therapeutics, Inc.       |      6.47 USD |       31.67M USD |  62  | 104%    |
| CDXS    | Codexis, Inc.                   |     13.29 USD |      651.14M USD |  51  | 78.91%  |
| REGN    | Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. |    305.77 USD |       32.00B USD |  25  | 77.66%  |
| JAZZ    | Jazz Pharmaceuticals PLC        |    123.49 USD |        7.97B USD |  57  | 52.56%  |
| UTHR    | United Therapeutics Corporation |     83.30 USD |        3.07B USD |  19  | 38.16%  |
| BAVA.CO | Bavarian Nordic A/S             |    161.75 DKK |      564.32M USD |  63  | 36.72%  |
| ABC.L   | Abcam plc                       |     11.30 GBP |        2.94B USD |  43  | 33.61%  |
| ALXN    | Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc     |    106.08 USD |       23.37B USD |  44  | 29.56%  |
| ENTA    | Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Inc.    |     59.55 USD |      870.30M USD |  61  | 28.67%  |

As I said before, biotech companies can be a bit of a gamble. Lets see next year if this is a good way to find the winners. 

Thanks to [Uncle Stock](http://www.unclestock.com/?referrer=5693737131835392) for selecting this interesting portfolio.