---
layout: post
title: 'REIT Portfolio - 2020 Review'
tags:
- Portfolio Idea
- REIT
---

Last year, I selected a portfolio of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). A REIT is one of the easiest ways to buy a diversified investment in real estate without needing a lot of capital to actually buy the buildings.

## Review

{: .table .table-bordered .table-hover}

| Symbol | Name | Percentage |
| :-- | :-- | --: |
| NRZ | New Residential Investment Corp. | -35.63% |
| CIM | Chimera Investment Corp. | -42.85% |
| KREF | KKR Real Estate Finance Trust, Inc. | 2.31% |
| INN | Summit Hotel Properties, Inc. | -40.02% |
| BPYU | Brookfield Property REIT Inc. | -29.95% |
| MPW | Medical Properties Trust, Inc. | 4.69% |
| IX | ORIX Corp. | -9.95% |
| NHI | National Health Investors, Inc. | -20.23% |
| LTC | LTC Properties, Inc. | -19.57% |
| GRP-UN | Granite Real Estate Investment Trust | 30.68% |
|  | Total | -16.052% |

I'm starting to sound like a broken record, but again the Corona virus had a major impact on the portfolio. There are many doubts about real estate, especially since many people still remember the 2008 housing bubble. But there's more:

* Investors are worried people will not be able to repay their mortgages.
* Commercial real estate is under pressure since many shops had to close during the lockdown and are still struggling because the general trend of online shopping is continuing.
* Now that every one has had a taste of home working, many companies may opt to reduce their "real" office space.

That being said, I think the portfolio did ok, but obviously it's nothing to be proud of. Keep in mind that all REITs listed had a dividend of 5 to 10% (contained within the figures above) and they will keep distributing a substantial part of their profits because they are legally obliged to do so.

## Large Cap

Analyzing the performance of last years portfolio and the performance of REITs in general, it looks like the larger REITs were able to withstand the Corona storm a bit better than the smaller ones. I suppose they are even more diversified, they may have better management and people may trust them more.

So for this year's REIT portfolio, I will be selecting [large cap](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/large-cap.asp) REITs only.

## This Month's Portfolio

With that in mind, here are the criteria for this month's selection:

- REITs only (US markets).
- Order by dividend yield.
- Positive EPS growth over the last 5 years.
- At least 10 billion market cap.

{: .table .table-bordered .table-hover}

| Symbol | Name | Current price | Dividend yield | EPS growth |
| :-- | :-- | --: | --: | --: |
| EQR | Equity Residential | 57.03 | 4.23 | 6.98 |
| UDR | Udr Inc | 35.09 | 4.1 | 86.9 |
| WELL | Welltower Inc | 59.78 | 4.08 | 4.77 |
| O | Realty Income Corp | 63.11 | 4.07 | 6.09 |
| ESS | Essex Property Trust Inc | 220.64 | 3.77 | 26.44 |
| PSA | Public Storage | 213.44 | 3.75 | 6.81 |
| MAA | Mid-America Apartment Comm | 117.16 | 3.41 | 9.3 |
| EXR | Extra Space Storage Inc | 106.74 | 3.37 | 16.15 |
| CCI | Crown Castle Intl Corp | 163.79 | 2.93 | 14.52 |
| DLR | Digital Realty Trust Inc. | 154.29 | 2.9 | 18.84 |
